[Hinata] A birthday party?
Well, yeah!
Father's birthday's gonna
be coming up soon, isn't it?
He hasn't been able to see his
sweet lil' grandkids lately,
so he's feeling lonely.
Even though he'd never say it.
(calm music)
(groaning)
(sighing)
[Hiashi] My sweet
Boruto and Himawari...
Your grandpa misses you so much!
-(chuckling)
-Oh yeah, that's right.
Boruto didn't go camping
with us last time.
Exactly!
So I'm really counting on you
to recruit everyone
for this party, Hinata!
Oh! And I think he'll
be even happier
if his grandkids both
get him a surprise gift.
-(chuckling)
-(calm music)
(Naruto humming)
[Naruto] A birthday
party sounds great!
I'll see what I can
do to get the day off.
I just can't wait to go to
Grandpa's to visit again!
Grandpa Hiashi's birthday, huh?
Man, I totally
forgot about that.
Boruto, you really gotta try
to remember these things.
But I thought that you'd
forgotten about it as well.
(gasping)
Although, goin' over
to Grandpa's place
is always so intense.
Does he have to get so clingy
and huggy with us all the time?
Well, actually,
when Grandpa gets angry,
he's really scary!
Come on.
I find that seriously
hard to believe.
I've never seen
him get like that.
Anyway, since we'll
be going over there,
I want you to get
Grandpa a present.
That goes for the both of you.
Okay!
I wonder what he'd like...
(chomping)
[Boruto Voiceover]
Present for Grandpa, huh?
I wonder what would
make him happy?
-(opening theme music)
-(singing in Japanese)
Oh?
A present for your
grandfather, huh?
I kinda feel like that
should be something
you come up with by yourself.
I know, I tried to, but
absolutely nothing came to mind!
That's why I'm asking you guys!
Let's see.
He's the head of the
Hyuga Clan's main family,
isn't that right?
Are the Hyuga strong?
Why don't you know that already?
You're a ninja of the Hidden
Leaf Village, aren't you?
I think it's safe to say
that they're amongst
the most famous
and influential of all of
the ninja in the village.
Yeah.
You know, they always say
the Hyuga are the
strongest in the Leaf.
(humming)
And what makes
them the strongest?
Well, it's gotta be their
Byakugan, of course!
It increases the
scope of their vision,
gives them the ability
to see through things,
and lets them use Gentle Fist.
It's an offensive
and defensive art
that only the Hyuga
are able to master.
Look, forget about all that!
Isn't my grandpa known
for something he likes?
Something that'll help
me choose a present?
Come on, Boruto,
if his own grandson
doesn't know that kind
of thing about him,
then how would we know?
[Boruto] Yeah, I
guess you're right.
Wouldn't it be faster to
just ask your parents?
They're both having way
too much fun with this.
They keep telling me
to go and figure it out
yourself for a change.
-(Sarada chuckling)
-[Sarada] That's what you get
for always being so oblivious
about these kinds of things.
(groaning)
Fine. If that's the case...
Mitsuki, come along
with me for a bit.
-(gasping)
-(groaning)
(birds chirping)
(footsteps tapping)
-(chuckling)
-So far so good!
Hey, why didn't we simply
enter through the front door?
Because it's gonna be
a big pain in the neck
if we get found out here.
Not just 'cause of
my doting grandpa,
but 'cause of Big
Sister Hanabi, too.
[Hanabi] Oh?
(groaning)
Who's a big pain
in the neck, now?
Huh?
[Boruto] Oh, Big Sister Hanabi!
Pardon us.
(chuckling)
[Hanabi] Trying to
sneak into the house
of a clan with the Byakugan?
There's no way you
could pull that off.
[Boruto] I know,
I wasn't thinking.
Although, I understand
your dilemma
about finding a present.
Honestly, even I
don't really know
what to get my father
for his birthday.
Seriously?
Even you don't know,
Big Sister Hanabi?
Oh man, I give up.
'Scuse me.
You're Boruto's
aunt, aren't you?
So why does he call
you his big sister?
Hey, Mitsuki!
Yes, I am his big sister.
-(humming)
-(nervous laughing)
Look, Father's at
home right now,
so why don't I just go ahead
and ask him what
he wants from you?
No, that's okay.
I mean, if he finds out
that I'm here right now,
he'll just rush in and get
all mushy with me again.
Yeah, you're probably right.
And that certainly would
be really embarrassing
in front of your
friend, wouldn't it?
(laughing)
[Boruto] Man, when
is he gonna stop
smothering his grandkids?
[Gatai] Excuse me!
I said excuse me!
My name's Gatai.
I'm from the Village
Hidden in the Cloud.
I'm here to challenge
the celebrated head
of the Hyuga Main Family,
touted to be the strongest
in the Hidden Leaf.
(grunting)
(thudding)
If you call yourself
the strongest,
then come out here and
accept my challenge.
[Boruto] Old school
guys like that
still exist these days?
[Mitsuki] A has-been shinobi
who wants to prove his strength?
(sighing)
Sometimes we get guys like
him with the wrong idea.
But picking a
fight with Grandpa?
This guy doesn't know
what's gonna hit him!
Is your grandfather strong?
He's the head of the house!
That isn't just for show.
That guy'll be a piece
of cake for my grandpa--
[Hiashi] Hey, Hanabi!
Are you here?
(footsteps tapping)
Not good!
[Hiashi] Sorry, but can you
take care of this like usual?
Yup.
Sure, father!
[Boruto] Huh?
Wait, what?
The head of the family's away?
That's right.
Unfortunately, he's out of
the village at the moment.
I'm really sorry that you
traveled so far for nothing,
but please, it's time for
you to take your leave.
Sorry, but I don't believe you.
Fighting you won't be the same.
Bring me Hiashi Hyuga.
I'm afraid I can't get
someone who's not here.
(chuckling)
Oh, I get it.
So he's afraid of fighting me!
Is that what's going on here?
If he's gonna run
away from a challenge,
then I count that as my victory.
Strongest in the
Leaf, what a joke!
(laughing)
(growling)
I should throw down salt
to purify this spot.
I just don't get it.
Why would Grandpa pretend
to be out, anyway?
He should've defeated that guy!
Who knows.
Whenever guys like
that come by here,
we handle it this way.
[Boruto] Every time?
Maybe that guy was right.
Maybe your grandfather's
really weak.
What, no way!
He's even stronger than
Big Sister Hanabi is!
Aw man, now I'm even more
confused about Grandpa.
[Mitsuki] Boruto, wait up.
Well, maybe Boruto's
too young to understand.
(door shutting)
Okay, I sent those
guys away like usual.
[Hiashi] I'm sorry
for the trouble.
[Hanabi] No, it's
an easy enough task.
I know you have your reasons
for doing things this way.
(Hiashi sighing)
It's easy to use force
to settle issues.
But when I say the Hyuga's
the strongest in the Leaf,
that's not the kind
of strength I mean.
I just wish I'd been able
to realize the truth sooner.
Uh, Father?
[Hiashi] It's nothing.
[Boruto] Damn it!
He should've just
confronted that jerk
and put him in his
place, you know?
Well, maybe your
grandfather's just a kind man.
He sure is soft on
me and Himawari.
But everyone talks about
how he was super
strict in the past.
Then perhaps something happened
that triggered a change in him.
A change?
[Mitsuki] If you
figure that out,
maybe you'll get an idea of
what present you should get him.
Yeah, you're right.
And I think I know just the
person who can tell me--
[Gatai] Hey, move!
You're in my seat!
(grunting)
Hey, what's your problem?
Just shut up!
Or are you a tough guy?
I'm the man who
defeated Hiashi Hyuga,
-the strongest in the Leaf!
-Sorry!
(Gatai laughing)
[Gatai's Follower]
The Hyuga Clan
turned out to be pretty
weak, didn't they?
I guess that Hiashi Hyuga was
just terrified of facing me,
so he pretended to
be away from home.
Man, how far Leaf
Shinobi have fallen
for a coward like that to
claim to be the strongest.
(laughing)
That bastard, I can't take this!
Hey, you!
Yeah, what do you want, kid?
I'm the grandson of Hiashi
Hyuga, the man you insulted.
The daughter, now the grandson?
He sure is good at using
children to shield himself.
(laughing)
You guys oughta
just shut up now.
All right, then!
I'll take you on
in Grandpa's place!
(laughing)
It's too late to
back out now, kid.
(scoffing) You just took the
words right out of my mouth.
(knuckles cracking)
All right, fine then.
Lightning Style:
Pulverizing Lightning Rod!
(electricity zapping)
(yelling)
(thudding)
(grunting)
(growling)
(chuckling)
Is running away all you can do?
You may talk big, but
you're really just a joke!
Oh yeah?
(grunting)
What's the matter?
If this is all you've got,
you're no match for
Big Sister Hanabi.
(growling)
Now you've made me mad, kid.
(electricity zapping)
(yelling)
(booming)
-(wood snapping)
-(thudding)
He's causing so much damage...
(growling)
(electricity zapping)
He's lost it!
I've got no choice.
(air whooshing)
Rasengan!
(growling)
(air whooshing)
Eight Trigrams: Palm Rotation.
(gasping)
(groaning)
Grandpa!
What are you doing down here?
I heard that someone
using the Hyuga name
had gotten involved in a duel.
That won't stand.
[Gatai] Hiashi Hyuga?
You dare turn down
my challenge earlier?
My lack of foresight led my
grandchild to act rashly.
However, if you still insist
on having a duel with me,
I'm willing to accept
your challenge.
What'll it be?
(booming)
Uh, no, that's okay.
I think I'm good.
(grunting)
(whimpering)
[Boruto] That was
amazing, Grandpa!
(sighing)
It wasn't amazing.
Using power and fear
to settle things
is never the best answer.
It breeds tragedy
and leaves behind enmity
that can never be resolved.
But why?
Why do things that can be
interpreted as weakness?
I couldn't stand that they were
making fun of you, Grandpa!
(sighing)
Look, just ignore them.
Things like that won't make
the powerful Hyuga Clan waiver.
I don't have any idea
what you're even
talking about, Grandpa.
Boruto...
No, I have no high ground.
It would be arrogant
to lecture you.
Long ago, I lived a
completely different life
until the day I learned
how to change myself.
Huh?
If you learned it,
then who taught you?
That's all in the past.
One day, I'm sure that
you'll understand as well.
Wait, what?
Your grandfather
must be very strong.
He held back perfectly so he
wouldn't hurt either of you.
Mitsuki!
If you were watching,
you could have told me
when my Grandpa got here!
But now I'm even more
confused than ever.
I mean, why doesn't my
Grandpa like using his power
if he's that strong?
(footsteps tapping)
Oh, Boruto?
Miss Mirai!
I heard that some shinobi
were fighting around here.
Do you know what's going on?
Don't tell me it was you!
Oh no, it was all just
a misunderstanding!
Seriously?
You weren't pulling some kind
of prank again, were you?
No way, I wasn't!
Right?
Whatever.
Anyway, I'm always
hearing from my mom
that Hinata's
constantly worrying
about all the trouble that you
keep getting yourself into.
Well that was uncalled for.
Are your mothers
close to each other?
Yeah, of course.
Back in the day,
Mirai's mother, Kurenai,
was the captain of the
team my mom was on.
Ah.
Then she must know all
about the Hyuga Clan.
Why don't you go ask her?
Yeah! Hey, you're pretty
sharp, Mitsuki!
Huh?
What are you two
guys talking about?
Oh, I see.
After hearing that, I
kind of have an idea.
Really?
But I'm not entirely sure
if it's okay for me
to be telling you.
It involves internal
family affairs.
Uh, we'll leave the two of
you alone for a little while.
(footsteps tapping)
Thank you.
I really want to learn
everything that I can
about all this stuff.
(footsteps tapping)
You know the Hyuga Clan
is split into the main and
side branch families, right?
Long ago, both
families were bound
by a strict tradition
of subjugation
when an incident occurred.
Oh yeah, right.
I heard some about that before.
The way Mr. Hiashi
lives his life now
is rooted in when his twin
brother from the side-branch
sacrificed himself
for the main family.
[Boruto] What?
It was all to take
the responsibility
for a conflict with
another village.
Hiashi or Hizashi.
One of the brothers had to die.
What?
Don't tell me...
Hizashi willingly
sacrificed himself
in order to avoid a
war, and in doing so,
he took the place of Hiashi,
the head of the clan.
[Boruto] But that's...
[Kurenai] It was all
for the Hyuga Clan,
and ultimately, the Leaf.
As if compensating for his
younger brother's death,
Mr. Hiashi hardened his heart
and became an
authoritarian leader.
[Boruto] So, that's why Grandpa
was so strict in the past.
But Mr. Hiashi came
to regret that.
Ultimately, being a
stern disciplinarian
ended up making life
very painful for many.
Including Hinata and Neji.
No wonder Grandpa
said that earlier...
Using power and fear
to settle things
is never the best answer.
But don't be worried.
The Hyuga have changed
a lot since then.
The devoted and
loving grandfather
that you've come to know
so well is the real Hiashi
that he struggled to keep
suppressed for so long.
(somber music)
So that's the real reason...
Try to cut him a little slack
from time to time, okay?
(chuckling)
Well, I promise
I'll try, you know?
Have you finished
with your talk?
Does this mean that your
mission has been accomplished?
Yeah, the mystery's cleared up!
Oh no, hold on!
The gift, the gift!
I still haven't figured
that out at all!
(chuckling)
So I guess you're back
to square one, huh?
Oh man!
After learning about
all that stuff,
I'm even more confused
about what I ought to
get him for his birthday!
(laughing)
You really don't need to think
about it as hard as that.
Huh?
It's not like it's so
important to your grandfather
for you to know about
the past, right?
[Boruto] That's true, but...
I'm sure that he
considers the time
he gets to spend with
you in the present
to be the most
priceless gift of all.
He's finally found happiness
filled with calm and peace.
The time he gets to spend
with us in the present?
(gasping)
[All] Happy birthday!
(confetti poppers popping)
(chuckling)
Both of the kids got you
birthday presents, Father.
(giggling)
This is for you!
For me, really?
Thank you.
Mommy and I picked it out
especially for you, Grandpa.
(wrapping paper rustling)
[Hiashi] Oh, this is...
It's so you don't get sick
and stay warm and
healthy forever.
Oh, how sweet!
Brings a tear to your eye!
(chuckling)
I'll wear it and
cherish it always.
(laughing)
You have a present
for him too, right?
Sorta, yeah.
Hey Grandpa, can you come
out to the garden for a sec?
The garden?
Whoa, is your present
really that big?
No, of course not.
It's a gift we're gonna
make together now, you know?
[Himawari] Oh!
A picture to celebrate!
My, this is--
Wow, this is a
really great idea.
We haven't taken a
family photo in forever!
But Boruto,
I thought that you always
hated taking pictures with me.
(Himawari giggling)
That's 'cause you always tried
to squish your
face against mine.
But I just figured
that something like
this is super important!
We're a family, you know,
so it's important for
us to leave a record
that we're happy and
doing well, right?
(gasping)
Boruto...
Let's take a family picture
like this every year!
Until I become the Leaf's
strongest, most amazing Shinobi!
(whimpering)
I'm glad, Boruto!
This is a wonderful present!
No wait, please!
Anything but that, okay?
[Hiashi] Boruto!
[Boruto] Dad, come
on, help me out here!
Grandpa's gonna smush my face!
(Himawari giggling)
Okay, lineup, it's picture time.
Say cheese!
(camera clicking)
[Hiashi] You didn't put that
idea in his head, did you?
[Naruto] No, I didn't
do anything at all.
I'm pretty sure he came
up with it on his own.
Oh, I see.
In the past, I believed
that harsh discipline
and a stern attitude
bred strength.
I thought that it would
help protect the clan
and the village.
If things had remained the same,
tragedies like Hizashi and
Neji would have continued,
and ultimately would have
destroyed the Hyuga Clan.
But things are
completely different now,
and all of it is
thanks to you, Naruto.
You changed it.
Father, I...
[Hiashi] It's because
you confronted Neji
with truth and sincerity.
It's hard to admit
that, but at least
I was able to come to an
understanding with him.
Just as you said you would
long ago, you changed me,
you changed Neji, and you
change the whole Hyuga Clan.
(somber music)
It was really you, Father.
You were the one
that changed it.
(sighing)
Thanks to you, I'm surrounded
by a new family now,
and I get to experience
happy memories with them.
I'm blessed beyond
my wildest dreams.
(uplifting music)
[Sarada] So what did you end
up giving him for a present?
[Boruto] Come on, forget
about that already.
But your grandfather
was happy, wasn't he?
The thing is, he
wasn't just happy,
he was overjoyed.
(gasping)
Oh, Boruto!
What perfect timing!
Why are you here?
I just came by so we could
spend some time together!
So, how have you been?
How have I been?
You just saw me yesterday!
Oh, so what?
This is fine!
No, it's not fine,
Grandpa, stop it!
Hey, come on now!
That's what you'd call
being overly overjoyed.
Yes, but I have to say
I'm a little bit jealous.
Hey, stop, put me down,
Grandpa, this is embarrassing!
(camera clicking)
(closing theme music)
(singing in Japanese)
(intense music)
Hey, how's Team 40 doing
these days, anyway?
[Enko Onikuma] Our mission
success rate's getting better!
But I'm afraid that I haven't
been able to control my
arm strength very well.
[Sarada] You mean
the Secret Jutsu
that's been passed down
in your clan, right Enko?
If it's going out of control,
maybe it means that your
summoning's power is growing?
[Boruto] Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations:
The Terror Enko Onikuma.
[Enko Onikuma] If this keeps up,
Tsuru and Doushu'll leave me!
(closing theme music)